An Abundance of Mattering

I just finished An Abundance of Katherines, by John Green. Great read. I really enjoyed it.
This smart, ambitious, and helplessly nerdy kid Colin has been on the dumpee for the 19th time,
and all 19 of his exes are named Katherine. Feeling now that he is the world's
leading expert in getting dumped, he hopes that he might finally make his
mark on the world by developing a mathematical formula that could predict the trajectory
(the demise, or otherwise) of any relationship. This 'mark making' is major
preoccupation of Colin's; as it happens, nothing really works out the way he plans. He ends up
meeting a curiously wonderful girl named Lindsay who leads him to realize that the whole formula
thing is futile. The future is not known and is always evolving, and the mark that Colin
is so ambitious to leave behind is so much more than a check box achievement. Living a
life that matters to others first means have people who matter to you - You matter
as much as the things that matter to you do. On the business of mattering, which is
something I have dealt with in a small way as well, it hinges on the distingution
between mattering to people and 'mattering at' them. Our achievements in and of themselves
matter so much less than who we've shared those experiences and achievements with and how
our lives are richer because of them. Anyone can accomplish something, but it's something
different to actually make difference in people's lives. Running parallel with Colin's yearning
to matter was his friend's struggle for identity and purpose in moving forward to the future.
The notion of being someone who things - to be a - tugs at all three of the characters.
It takes a tremendous amount of courage to take first steps, which is probably why they
are more commonly known as. Finding that kind of courage is difficult, because you may
never feel that you have enough of what it takes to take that leap. But its important
that one does leap anyway for the sake of not doing nothing. The first step is doing
something is to decide not to do nothing.... he thought about the space between what
happened and what we remember, the space between what we predict and what will happen.
And in that space, Colin thought, there was room to reinvent himself. Because the only
way to reconcile who want to be with how others perceive who you are is to go out and
simply be that person.
